**What am I trying to say and who is my Audience?**

**My audience is Sam.**

**I want to talk about the criteria for picking the content, and what I
decided to play and why.**

**Then discuss the method of practicing.**

**Content**

I had a few things in mind when developing the curriculum for the
keyboards to practice. Most importantly, I want to address the three
main domains of musical prowess, the technical aspect of being able to
play (addressed by fundamentals), and the two primary ways we determine
what to play, sight reading and playing by ear.

I had some difficulty coming up with curriculum for the the latter two.
Both playing by ear and sight reading have the unique challenge of
needing new material each time through. The second time through playing
by ear or sight-reading a piece of music will be easier than the first,
as you will have familiarity with it the second time through. Thus it is
unfair to test sight reading with content that had already been
sight-read: the second keyboard reading the material would have the
advantage. For parity, the content must be new.

This is where EarMaster 7 comes in. This software generates music to be
sight read or played by ear, and you can define the parameters
beforehand. This allows me to practice music that has a general
difficulty that is completely unique. The software isn't perfect, but
it's what I'm going to work with for the moment.

Choosing the material to practice for the fundamentals is a little bit
more difficult. I tried to pick exercises that were standard and that
tested different aspects of my technical abilities. I ultimately chose
three different sets of exercises: Scales and Arpeggios from \_\_\_\_,
Hannon's Piano exercises, and Slonimsky's Thesaurus of Scales and
Musical Patterns.

Scales and the arpeggios were the easiest decision. They are probably
the most standard sets of exercises. Choosing the book from which I am
going to practice the scales and arpeggios is a bit more difficult, but
I settled on \_\_\_. I'm going to be practicing Major, melodic minor,
harmonic minor, and natural minor scales, and major and minor arpeggios.

It was pretty easy to choose Hannon's finger exercises. It is one of the
most popular sets of exercises for the piano, and it tests the fingers
in a unique way **What is this unique way?**. Unlike scales, the LIK
will have no transpositional advantage, and will probably be
disadvantaged, as everything in the book is played in the key of C,
making it easier on the traditional keyboard. It is also possible that
this set of exercises will expose technical limitations of the LIK.

The last set of exercises by Slonimsky is one that I find fascinating.
Atypical in comparison to the other content, the Thesaurus should do
well to expose technical limitations on either keyboard. If there was
any content that is not written for the TK (as I mention **here**), it
would be the Thesaurus.

**An Incomplete Practice**

There is content that is missing. Notably, I'm not going to be
practicing chords in fundamentals, sight reading, or playing by ear, and
I think that it will be a necessary addition in the future. I might need
to begin to practice real songs, etudes, or solos in the future for
playing by ear or sight reading.

I'm not concerned about having a "complete" or "perfect" practice
routine upon starting the experiment, partially because there is no
perfect practice routine, but also because I think that I should be able
to change the practice routine in the future. I think the practice
sessions will be fair as long as I am practicing the same exercise sets
for the same amount of time on each keyboard.

**The Method of Practicing**

I will practice each set of exercises for the same amount of time (and
thus each domain of musical prowess for the same amount of time), but I
won't force myself to practice the same exercise for the same amount of
time, so each keyboard will be allowed to improve at its own pace. I'm
going to be alternating the order that I play the keyboards if I play
both keyboards in the same day to avoid a potentially confounding
variable.^1^

I have broken up each exercises into a set of incrementing difficulties,
which is often just incrementing tempo from 60 bpm to 120 bpm. The
increments are created from my metronome markings, which are increase
the speed by about 2-4%.

**All of this has yet to be made**

All of my practice sessions will be recorded. You can find the pages for
the practice sessions here. You can find the detailed content of what I
am going to practice here. You can see my progress here.

1.  There is a potential confounding variable in the order that I
    > practice the keyboards if I practice both in the same day. If I
    > always play the LIK first and the TK second, the LIK might benefit
    > from my mind being fresh, or the TK might benefit from me already
    > being warmed up. I am going to keep track of each time I practice
    > both keyboards in one day, so the next time I practice both
    > keyboards I can alternate the order.

Need to do melodic (with one hand at a time), and harmonic.

5 minutes of scales and arpeggios

5 minutes of Hannon

5 minutes of the Thesaurus of Scales and Musical Patterns

10 minutes of sight reading

10 minutes of melodic transcription
